---
layout: page
title: ""
---
## PFAS transport in partially water-saturated soils
> Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) have widely spread in the vadose zone and groundwater and posed great risks to subsurface drinking water resources. Quantifying PFAS transport in the complex subsurface systems has been challenging due to the accumulation of interfacially-active PFAS at air-water interfaces of partially water-saturated soil pore spaces, and their partitioning at different air-water interfaces including those reside between soil grains and those arise in thin water films on soil grain surfaces. To address these challenges, I develop mechanistic pore-scale models and analytical upscaling frameworks that capture the physical transport mechanisms unique to PFAS. The ultimate goal is to bridge the gap between pore-scale understands and field-scale modeling concepts for better characterizing the PFAS transport behaviors and developing effective remediation strategies in the real-world subsurface environment.

> Relevant materials: Chen & Guo, WRR (accepted)

## Water evaporation and heat transfer in soils near land surface
> Evaporation of water from soils is a key physical process governing mass and energy fluxes at the land surface. Soil evaporation is controlled by a wide range of factors including atmospheric conditions such as temperature, humidity, and air flow, as well as flow and transport processes in the soil media. The *overarching goal* of the project is to develop coupled pore-scale modeling frameworks to understand and quantify the fundamental pore-scale processes in soils that govern evaporation at the land-atmosphere interface, with a focus on the impact of thin water films.

> Relevant materials: [Chen et al, AGU Fall Meeting (2022)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022AGUFM.H53G..06C/abstract)

## Compositional flow and thermodynamics in nanoporous media
> Flow and transport of multiple fluid phases and components in porous materials are ubiquitous and are challenging to model when thermodynamic phase change behaviors are involved. Porous materials with nanoscale pore spaces can further complicate the problem. The thermodynamic phase behavior of a multicomponent mixture in nanoscale pore spaces can significantly deviate from its bulk state, leading to very different triggering pressure and temperature for evaporation and condensation. This anomalous phase change behavior due to nanoconfinement—commonly observed during oil and gas recovery from shale formations—has posed significant challenges for accurate prediction of oil/gas production. Current theories either underrepresent the complex multiscale pore structures by using molecular simulations within a single pore, or oversimplify the nanoconfined flow mechanisms by using Darcy-scale continuum models, causing inconsistent predictions with experimental and field observations. To bridge the gap, I develop a group of novel pore-network modeling frameworks to examine how complex nanopore networks control the phase change and compositional flow dynamics. The model allows us to derive new constitutive relationships for Darcy-scale continuum models by considering the interactions between phase change behaviors, two-phase compositional flow dynamics, and the multiscale nanopore structures, which can be used for quantitative predictions of field-scale hydrocarbon production from complex shale formations.

> Relevant materials: [Chen et al, WRR (2020)](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2020WR028510); [Chen et al, CEJ (2021)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1385894721007981); [Chen et al, URTec (2021)](https://onepetro.org/URTECONF/proceedings-abstract/21URTC/1-21URTC/465245)
